QUICK START

27 June 93
Copy all the files on all the disks to a folder on your hard disk
(make sure you have at least four (4) megabytes of free space
per disk of Moby product for HD diskettes, two (2) megabytes of
free space for DD diskettes.)
Change your directory ('CD') to the folder, type BUILD and press (enter).
The files that are extracted may be viewed and manipulated by any text
editor or word processor capable of viewing and editing large text files.
You may wish to divide the thesaurus files into five or more
smaller files with your utility for performance reasons.

Moby(tm) Thesaurus II Documentation Notes

This documentation, the software and/or database are:

Copyright (c) 1991-93, Grady Ward.  All Rights Reserved.
3449 Martha Ct.
Arcata, CA  95521-4884  USA
(707) 826-7715 (voice/fax)
grady@netcom.com

License Agreement
This documentation, software and/or database was developed
and copyrighted by Grady Ward and is licensed, not sold, to you
on a non-exclusive, non-transferable basis. The documentation,
software and/or database and derivative works of this database
may not be copied in whole or part except for archival purposes
as provided by law.
If you have paid the commercial license fee, Grady Ward explicitly
grants you the limited right to create and market data structures or
knowledge bases derived this work without further payment of a
fee or royalty, as long as the purpose and effect of that data structure
or knowledge base is substantially other than simply redistributing this
Grady Ward lexical data.
(In other words, you must make a reasonable effort to prevent
unlicensed individuals and companies from accessing the source
form of this data.)

Willful copyright violations are both a civil and a criminal offense [17USC500]

Disclaimer of Warranty
This documentation, software and/or database is sold "as is" and
without express or implied warranties as to performance or
merchantability for a particular purpose.  The user is advised
to test the documentation, software and/or database thoroughly
before relying on it. The user assumes the entire risk of using
this documentation, software and/or database and any liability
of seller or manufacturer will be limited to product replacement
or refund of the license fee.

Moby Thesaurus is the largest and most comprehensive thesaurus
data source in English available for commercial use.  This second
edition has been thoroughly revised adding more than 5,000 root
words (to total more than 30,000) with an additional _million_
synonyms and related terms (to total more than 2.5 _million_
synonyms and related terms). Although this thesaurus is provided
in a very simple ASCII format suitable to viewing, editing, and
automatic parsing, most users will consider reformatting schemes
to represent the data in a more economical form, such as table
of related terms whose index can be shared by many roots.
This is roughly the technique used by the thesaurus in print form
that has the large index coupled with the synonyms under abstract
(and arbitrary) headings in the front matter. Tables of related
terms can be stored in, for example, LZ compressed form until
actually required by the application. Combining such schemes
could easily reduce the storage requirement of this data by an
order of magnitude or more. The supplementary file, roget13a.txt,
provides a small thesaurus already organized in this form that you
may wish to use as a guide when developing your own categories
of synonyms. Also, of course, uncommon words can be stripped
out according to the developer's criterion, keeping only the core
and most oftenly used information. Once unarchived, the database
format is flat-file ASCII: each record (delimited from other records
with a terminal carriage return/linefeed [ASCII 13/10] character) is
of the form:
(In this example, the root word is 'frill', which is always
the first word of the list. The synonyms and related words are listed
in ASCII alphabetical order after the root. Each entry, including
the root, is followed by a comma. The last entry in a record is
followed by a carriage return/linefeed [ASCII 13/10].)

frill,addition,adornment,amenity,beading,beauties,bedizenment,
binding,bonus, bordering,bordure,bravery,chiffon,clinquant,colors,
colors of rhetoric, crease,creasing,crimp,crisp,decoration,dog-ear,
double,double over, doubling,duplication, duplication of effort,
duplicature,edging,elegant variation,embellishment,embroidery,
enfold,expletive,extra,extra added attraction,extra dash,
extravagance,fat,featherbedding,festoons,figure,figure of speech,
filigree,filling,fillip, fimbria,fimbriation,fine writing,finery,flection,
flexure,floridity,floridness,flounce,flourish,floweriness,
flowers of speech,flute,fold,fold over,folderol,foofaraw,frilliness,
frilling,frills,frills and furbelows,fringe,frippery,froufrou,furbelow,
fuss,gaiety,galloon, gather,gaudery,gewgaw,gilding,gilt,gingerbread,
hem,infold,interfold, jazz,lagniappe,lap over,lapel,lappet,list,lushness,
luxuriance,luxury,motif,needlessness,ornament,ornamentation,
ostentation,overadornment,overlap,padding, paste,payroll padding,
plait,plat,pleat,pleonasm,plica,plicate, plication,plicature,ply,premium,
prolixity,purple patches,quill,redundance, redundancy,ruche,ruching,
ruff,ruffle,selvage, showiness,skirting,something extra,stuffing,superaddition,
superfluity,superfluousness,tautology,tinsel,trappings,trickery,trimming,
trumpery,tuck,turn over,twill,twist,unnecessariness,valance,verbosity,
welt,wrinkle[carriage return]

Part-of-Speech information is not stored with this thesaurus.
Grady Ward supplies a separate lexical database providing the
part(s)-of-speech for a large collection (>200,000) of English
words and phrases that can be used in conjunction with this
list to supply POS information if needed by the particular application.
