QUICK START

17 May 93   

Copy all the files to a folder on your hard disk (make sure you have at 
two-and-a-half megabytes of free space on your hard disk after copying).  
Then type BUILD and press (enter).

The file that is extracted may be viewed and edited by any capable text-editor,
such as Microsoft Word 5.x

This second edition of the Moby Hyphenator has an additional 30,000 entries
over the first edition, giving a total of 187,175 hyphenated single and compound
words. This is the largest list of its kind in the world available for royalty-free use.

Moby Hyphenator II Documentation Notes -- May 17, 1993
										
This documentation, the software and/or database are:

Copyright (c) 1988-93, Grady Ward.  All Rights Reserved.
3449 Martha Ct.
Arcata, CA  95521-4884  USA
(707) 826-7715 (voice/fax)
grady@netcom.com		
		                                  
License Agreement		
This documentation, software and/or database was developed and copyrighted
by Grady Ward and is licensed, not sold, to you on a non-exclusive,
non-transferable basis. The documentation, software and/or database and
derivative works of this database may not be copied in whole or part except
for archival purposes as provided by law.
If you have purchased the commercial license, Grady Ward explicitly grants you 
the limited right to create and market data structures or knowledge bases derived
this work without further payment of a license fee, as long as the purpose and
effect of that data structure or knowledge base is other than re-distributing this
Grady Ward data structure or database.
That is, you must make a good-faith effort to prevent non-licensed individuals
and organizations from accessing the ASCII source and derivatives.

Willful copyright violations are both a civil and a criminal offense [17USC500]

Disclaimer of Warranty		
This documentation, software and/or database is sold "as is" and without express
or implied warranties as to performance or merchantability for a particular purpose.
The user is advised to test the documentation, software and/or database thoroughly
before relying on it.  The user assumes the entire risk of using this documentation,
software and/or database and any liability of seller or manufacturer will be limited
to product replacement or refund of the license fee.	

	

Moby Hyphenator II for MSDOS operating systems is compressed and distributed
on 720k double-sided diskette media.
After self-decompression the vocabulary files included with this product are in
ordinary ASCII format with CRLF (ASCII 13/10) delimiters. 
The hyphenation marks are  indicated with ASCII 165 character, which is
significant in alphabetization.

Note that words that ought *not* to be hyphenated are included for completeness.
Once decompressed, the vocabulary files may be viewed and used just as any
TEXT-type file might.
		
Grady Ward also licenses Moby Words, Moby Part-of-Speech, Moby
Pronunciator, and Moby Thesaurus -- the most comprehensive pure ASCII
source of royalty-free lexical information in the world.

Please write, call, fax or e-mail for a free brochure.

"...remarkable...a great data source..."
[Developer's Toolbox, PC-WORLD  11/89]

"just what I've been looking for"
[Andy Hertzfeld  12/89]

"thank God"
[Anonymous systems programmer assigned to enter parts-of-speech by hand,
after finding out about Moby Part-of-Speech,  Boston University 9/89]